Angular Signals: What? Why? and How?
Deborah Kurata
Apr 3, 2023
Angular Signals
An exciting new feature is coming to Angular: signals! Starting in Angular v16, Angular developers can leverage the power of signals to create more reactive applications. Signals provide a new way for our code to inform our templates (and other code) that our data has changed, offering more granular control over how and when updates are propagated and improving change detection. …

Links
My completed Stackblitz: 
https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-signals-deborahk?file=src%2Fmain.ts

Content
00:00 Introduction to Angular Signals
00:51 Why use signals?
03:58 What are signals?
06:16 How to create signals?
06:34 Where to use signals?
06:54 Creating a signal
09:10 Reading a signal
09:14 Setting a signal
11:18 Signal methods: set, update, mutate
12:06 Defining a computed signal
13:14 Using an effect for side effects
14:36 Signals and templates
15:15 Current state of signals
15:36 Suggestions for how to use signals
16:00 Demo

NOTES
There is a typo on the slide at time code 2:12. The exPrice = price * quantity calculation should be exPrice = this.price * qty.

😊About Me
I'm Deborah Kurata
I'm a software developer and YouTube content creator.  I speak at conferences such as VS Live and ng-conf. I write articles for freeCodeCamp. And I'm a Pluralsight author with courses in the top 10 most popular (out of 10,000+) over the past 5 years. For my work in support of software developers, I've been recognized with the Microsoft Most Valuable Professional (MVP) award, and I'm a Google Developer Expert (GDE).

Contact me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/DeborahKurata
Find my Pluralsight courses: https://www.pluralsight.com/profile/a...
Access my freeCodeCamp articles: https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/aut...
View my YouTube content:    / @deborah_kurata  

Transcript
Introduction to Angular Signals
 an exciting new feature is coming to
angular signals
signals provide a new way for our code
to tell our templates and any other code
that our data has changed this improves
angular's change detection and makes our
code more reactive what do we mean by
that we'll see that in a moment
signals are a new feature available for
developer preview and angular V16 due
out in May of this year
so 
what are angular signals 
why would we
use them and how do we create read and
change them and react to those changes
let's answer each of these questions and
walk through a Hands-On demo we'll start
with the why

Why use signals?
let's say we are building a feature to
do some simple math here we set x equal
to 5 y equal to 3 and Z equal X Plus y
so what is z well if you're arithmetic
is anything like mine I come out with
eight
but what if we then change X to 10 now
what is z?

if you said eight you are right the
value of Z is assigned when the
expression is first evaluated it does
not react to changes in X or Y
but one of the reasons we do angular is
because we want a 
reactive user
interface we want our code to react to
changes for example when the user
changes the quantity we want the code to
react and 
recalculate our totals if the
user deletes one of the line items we
want the totals to reflect that as well

how do we react to changes?
 
one
option is to u
se a getter in this
example 
we Define the extended price as
a getter so when the quantity changes
change detection kicks in the template
regets the extended price and it gets
the price times the new quantity

alternatively we could use an 
event here
we have an 
event handler
 that is called
from the template when the user changes
the quantity in that event handler we
recalculate the extended price
this works for changes in this component
but what 
if the totals were in a
separate total component 

how would it
know to update its totals ?

that's where
signals come in here we create the
quantity as a signal then we create a
computed signal that reacts and
recalculates when the quantity signal
changes

here on the left is our original example
and on the right similar code that uses
signals we 
create a signal x with a
value of 5 of signal y with a value of 3
and we create a 
computed signal that is
the sum of X and Y 

if we change the X
signal the Z computed signal
automatically reacts and recalculates
providing the new result

if we bind to Z in the template
angular's change detection kicks in and
Z is updated in the template 
 our
components can now be more reactive
as we just saw 

signals 
provide more
reactivity 
we can use signals to Define
our application State basically the data
in our application and we can reference
those signals in our template so our
template knows what data it depends on
when that data changes angulars change
detection knows it needs to re-render
that part of the view this gives us

finer control over change detection and
can improve our application's
performance



What are signals?

Signal = value + change notification


signal
 as a 
Value 
+ 
a change notification



with imperative code when we declare a
variable that a variable is available to
any code within scope it's like putting
that value on a shelf any code can look
at that shelf and read the value but the
value doesn't react to any other
variable changes

with signals when we declare a signal
that 
signal value is encapsulated it's
like putting the value in a box

when the signal changes the Box glows
providing notification of the change 
any
code that references the signal is
notified of the change and can react
appropriately 

if a template reads the
signal that template is scheduled for
re-rendering and the current value of
the signal is displayed 


{{ x }}   // Variable
{{ x() }} // Signal

let x = 5;
console.log(x);

let x = signal(5);
console.log(x());


notice the

parentheses
 when reading the signal 

this
calls the signal getter
 to open the box
so to speak and 
read the value

when you make updates to the model or
data 
angular automatically applies those
changes to the corresponding view this
enables a seamless and synchronized
interaction between model and view
allowing for a smooth user experience

in the current versions of angular
change detection uses Zone JS to keep
the applications model in View and sync
as we see more signal features in
angular will be able to create
components that 
don't need Zone JS for
change detection similar to how we use
on push today we'll be able to use
signals for finer control over change
detection
 

signals are reactive
  provide a
notification when their value changes
making it easier for our code to react
to those changes 

a signal always has a value 
we provide an initial value when
creating the signal and we can change
that value as we'll see shortly 

a signal is 
side effect free 
meaning that 
reading
a signal can cause no other changes nor
execute any other code

so that's the why and the what now let's
look at the Syntax for how to create a
signal read a signal set a signal use
signal methods Define a computed value
and use an effect for side effects then
we'll open an editor and demo these
features


How to create signals?

Where to use signals?

we can use
them in 
components to track local
component State we can add them to a

directive we can use them in a service
to share State across components we can
read them in a 
template to display
signal values and we can use them
basically anywhere else in our code

Creating a signal
here is the Syntax for creating a signal

quantity = signal<number>(1);

this creates and initializes a signal
using the signal Constructor function 
it
creates the signal of the defined type
that type can be a 
string 
number 
array
object or any other type 

setting the
type is optional as signals can often in
further type using the default value
like in this example 



qtyAvailable = signal([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]);
selectedVehicle = signal<Vehicle>({id: 1, name: 'AT-AT', price: 198.13});
vehicles = signal<Vehicle[]>([]);


if we didn't
provide the type the signal would know
it was a number 
the default value is
required 
the signal must always have a
valid value starting with this default

here are some examples we create a
numeric signal with a 
default value of
one 

we create an array signal with a
default array 

we create a signal for a
vehicle object and set its default value
and 

we create a signal for an array of
vehicle objects here we set the default
to an empty array



a signal created with the signal
Constructor function is 
writable
 the
signal value can be 
set to a new value
updated based on its current value or
its content can be 
mutated for arrays or
other objects 

we'll see the Syntax for
these operations in just a moment
we read a signal by 
calling its getter
function 
we use the signal name followed
by empty parentheses this calls the
signal getter so here we open the box so
to speak by calling the getter and
retrieve the current value of the signal

quantity();



here are some examples we can read a
signal in our code in this example we're
reading the value of the quantity signal
to display it in the console this code
runs once when the component is
constructed we can read a signal in the
template here 
we use an 

ngFor to display
each element and our quantity available
signal which is an array and here we use
binding to read the selected vehicle
signal and display the name and price
properties


<option *ngFor="let q of qtyAvailable()">
    {{ q }}
</option>


reading a signal opens the box to get
the current value technically speaking
it's calling the signals getter function
and it reads the current value of the
signal the Box only contains its one

Reading a signal
current value

Setting a signal
we replace the value of a signal using
the set function we start with the
signal name call the set function and
provide the new value

here are some examples in the first
scenario the user selects a quantity
from a select element in the template
when the selection changes the template
calls the on quantity selected event
handler the code then replaces the value
of the quantity signal with the value
selected by the user

in this second example we set the
selected vehicle signal to a different
object

setting a signal replaces the value in
the box with a new value it 

notifies any
consumers that the signal changed and
those 

consumers update when it's their
turn to execute a 
consumer in this
context is any code that's interested in
notifications when the signal changes

how does our code show it's interested
and receiving notifications if the code
reads a signal that code is notified
when the signal changes if the template
reads a signal that template is notified
when the signal changes and the template
will be re-rendered
but it's important to note that 

a signal
does not emit values 
so it isn't like an
observable 

here is an example this isn't
very real world but this code could do
something such as check a minimum
quantity and reset to that minimum or
check against a maximum quantity and
reset to that maximum setting a new
signal 
replaces the signal value in the
box and provides a notification  
I've
changed  I've changed  I've
changed but if it changes multiple times
before the value is read the consumers
will only see the current or most recent
value when it's time to re-render the
template 

The Binding reads the current
value only it knows nothing about the
prior signal values

Signal methods: 
set, update, mutate
so we've looked at the set method which
replaces the signal value with a new
value
use the 

update
 method to update the
value based on its current value we
provide an arrow function that passes in
the current value we can then make any
changes to that value here we multiply
it by two 

to change the content of a
signal 
not the signal itself use 
mutate

mutate updates the value of an array
element or an 
object property in place


in this example we 
update the vehicle's
price to a new price
each of these cases make some change to
the value in the Box 

notifies any
consumers that the signal has changed
and those consumers update or re-render
as needed


Defining a computed signal
as we saw at the beginning with adding X
and Y we can create a computed signal 

a
computed signal recomputes when its
dependent signals change
we call the 
computed creation function
and pass in a 
computation function to
compute the value in that computation
function we 
read the values of any
dependent signals

computed creates a new signal that
depends on other signals 

a computed
signal is 
read only it cannot be
modified with set update or mutate 

the
computed value is recomputed when one or
more of its dependent signals are
changed and the value is read 

the
computed value is 
memoized
 meaning it
stores the computed result that computed
value is 
reused next time the computed
value is read

for example say our template reads
extended price in three places in the
template 
the computed value is only
calculated once it 
reuses that stored
value for the other two times it's read



Using an effect for side effects
lastly we have effects use an effect 
if
you want to run some code when a signal
changes and that code has side effects
create an effect with the 
effect creation function
pass it a 
function
with the code to execute the code is
then 
re-executed when it's notified of a
change to one of its dependent signals


think of an effect like an 
observable
tap operator that 
automatically
subscribes to the signal 
we can add the
effect to a method such as a Constructor
or we can call it declaratively
calling in effect should not change the
value in the Box the effect is run when
one or more of its dependent signals is
changed and it's this code's turn to
execute
again it's important to note that


signals don't emit values so 
if the
signal is changed multiple times before
an effects code can be executed 
the
effect will only read the current value
the log will only display 42 in the
console we'll see this in action in the
upcoming demo



14:02







when should we use effects?
 if we want to
do logging as we've just seen in those
examples or if we want to call external
apis not including rxjs you'll find that
you won't use effects very often
before moving on let's take a moment and
Signals and templates
talk about signals and templates here is
an example template we use a signal in
the ngFor and in bindings for our vehicle
name price and total price
during template rendering reading a
signal Returns the signal value it also
registers the signal as a dependency of
the view if the signal changes the view
is re-rendered so the act of reading the
signal registers that signal as a
dependency of the view the view then
knows that it should re-render when any
of its dependent signals change
Current state of signals
in angular V16 signals are available as
a developer preview t are integrated
into the existing change detection model
you can also use on push change
detection if desired signals will mark
on push components for check similar to
how the async pipe works here are some
suggestions for how to use signals
Suggestions for how to use signals
continue to use event handlers for user
actions use a signal or computed for any
state or data that could change put
shared signals and services continue to
use observables for async operations
such as HTTP get there will be features
to map signals to and from and
observable
Demo
now let's move on to our demo we're
going to use stack Blitz which is an
online editor we're going to edit the
package.json to V16 next so we can use
these new features
we can then refresh the dependencies and
we can try it out check out the video
notes below for the link to my stop
Blitz let's jump into a demo
I've opened stock Blitz using the link
on the slides and I'm going to click a
new angular project
notice our dependencies are all
currently angular v15 so we're going to
go to the package.json file and we're
going to change them all to V16 next
at the time of this recording it was
16.0.0 Dash next.4 it might be newer by
the time you watch this video
so I'm just going to paste that in for
each one of these okay
then we're going to save it which will
automatically install those dependencies
installation complete and it still works
okay so we're going to go into Main and
the first thing we're going to do is
create our signal so we're going to call
it quantity and we're going to make it a
number but since we're assigning it to
the value of 1 it will already know it's
a number and it's going to tell us we
can't find that so we can have it update
our import and so now it's got the
import here and if we hover over we see
that it is a setable signal of number
the next thing we want to do is display
that quantity so let's go ahead and do
that in our template so we can just
change our header here we're going to
call this our shopping cart
and here we're just going to do a div
and bind to our quantity now notice we
get this weird
thing displayed here on our shopping
cart why is that because we're trying to
display the signal we're not displaying
the value of the signal we need to
remember to open the box first in order
to actually see the value and here's our
value of 1.
so we can also display the value in code
so let's create a Constructor just so
that we have a place to write some code
and we're going to say console.log and
we're going to log out our quantity so
that's that quantity and again we have
to remember our parents to open that box
and to get that value out and we'll see
here that we have a value of 1. the next
thing we want to do is we want to try
setting the quantity to something else
so let's go ahead and add a select to
save myself some typing I'm just going
to paste it in and what this does is it
has an NG model with our quantity and
it's calling an on quantity selected
method which it's telling us we don't
have yet and we're binding to two things
so we're binding to that quantity with
our NG model and in our ngFor we're
binding to an array which is our
quantity available you know normally we
would get this from an inventory system
to know how many are available but we're
going to hard code in an array so let's
start with that I'm going to do an array
we're going to call it quantity
available and set it equal to a signal
that is an array and we want to set the
signal to one two three four five six
quantity available now is a signal that
is an array with with one through six in
it so those will be the options that we
have in our drop down the other thing we
need is this on quantity selected and
we're passing into that method the
quantity and in our code here then we
can change that quantity
now it's complaining about NG model it
always complains about that because NG
model is part of forms so for that to
work we need to import forms module and
that does just like that
all right now if you haven't seen it
this uses Standalone components which
was new in v15 as a preview in v15 if
you're not familiar with it it just
means that we can run without an angular
module so if you notice here there is no
angular module but that has nothing to
do with signals you can completely do
modules and the signals still work those
two are two entirely separate and
distinct features but here now we have
our drop down and notice that it did
correctly bind to our signal array that
we have here and if we pick one you'll
notice that it is correctly binding to
that now notice that our console log
here did not recognize that change
that's because in the Constructor it
only executes this code once so if we
actually want to see it every time it's
changed we could do that in a an effect
so we can do a quantity effect and again
you don't don't do these very often
we're going to just do it so that we can
do some debugging here would probably
want to remove this when our code was
actually done and I'm just going to
paste in the console log to save myself
some typing and we need to add this
effect to our import so now we can see
that it says the latest quantity is one
if I pick a different value it now
displays that the quantity is 3. okay so
let's try something else let's go ahead
and our code here and we're going to try
setting the quantity to 5 and we're
going to set it again
242. that because that's because that's
a magic number all right so when we
change the quantity and it calls this on
quantity selected it sets the quantity
to six then to 5 then to 42 when this
code is finished executing then the
effect is executed and it only retrieves
the last value the most recent value
which is the 42. all right so we're
going to comment that out all right so
what else do we want to do let's try
doing an update so let's say we're
having a two for one sale and we want to
in our Constructor when this comes up we
want to update the quantity to twice the
quantity so we can take this dot
quantity and update it and it gives us
the quantity and what we can do is take
that quantity and multiply it by two
so now you can see that it's defaulting
to 2 here
and if I pick something we can see that
the last quantity now is four
if I pick one
it shows that the quantity is one so
it's always showing us the most recent
value that's set into our quantity
signal
now let's try creating a signal that's
an object
and I'm just going to paste mine and it
wants the definition of what a vehicle
is so I'm just going to stick it in here
of course this would normally be in a
service but we're just going to put our
interface here for our vehicle and our
vehicle consists of an ID which is a
number or a name which is a string and
price which is a number okay so now
we're good with that so here is our
vehicle as another example we can also
create an array of vehicles which would
be a signal of an array now here in this
case it has no idea what kind of array
that I want here this knew that it was a
setable signal of number array but in
this case it's any because it has no
idea so in this case we might want to
strongly type that and say that this
array is going to be a v Circle
array
and now it will know its correct type
and let's add a computed value up here
we're going to calculate an extended
price and that is going to be a computed
and in the computed function we're going
to say this dot selected vehicle we need
to pull that out of the box because
that's the signal so we need to do the
open and closing parentheses we're going
to take its price and multiply it by our
quantity and again that's an error
because we need to call the getter and
pull it out of that box
and for our computed we need to update
the import
let's add some more information to our
template then I'm just going to paste
that in prevent you from having to watch
me type it all in but basically I added
a div element for the vehicle name one
for the price and then one for the total
which is the extended price so that's
our price times the quantity so you can
see here that it it took my default
signal value of 1 down here it updated
that to be twice that so it's 2 when
that was changed it recalculated the
extended price and updated it on the
template so now if we change it to three
we'll see that it correctly calculated
our total and if we change it to 5 it
will again correctly calculate our total
so the last thing that I want to show
here is mutate we've already tried set
and update so mutate is all that's left
so here in our Constructor so we have a
place to run the code we're going to say
this dot
selectedvehicle dot mutate because we
want to update just part of what's in
the selected vehicle and it's going to
give us that vehicle and then we can do
our Arrow function we're going to say we
want to update the price and have it
equal to the price plus price times 0.2
kind of have an Interstellar price
increase there on our vehicle so you can
see that it correctly recalculated the
price and the total automatically
reacted and displayed the correct total
there so we don't have any code that's
needing to do anything to tell the UI to
update we don't have to write Behavior
subjects in here we don't have to do
anything fancy we just create signals
and then we're good to roll if you don't
want to type all of this in you can just
open my stack Blitz that has all of this
code in it check out the video notes
below for the link to that stock Blitz
and have fun trying out signals
thanks for watching if this video was
useful please like And subscribe
Angular Signals
Deborah Kurata
1 / 5

Comments

I'll add standalone APIs to my list! 

Signals will improve responsiveness ... especially if you create signals for all of your bound properties and turn on OnPush change detection.

In a future version of Angular, signals will improve responsiveness even further by allowing for "zone-less" change detection. (zone.js is what Angular currently uses for change detection)

Small tip: in VS Code, and also in StackBlitz, when you want to replace the same value in multiple places (like you did for the Angular version), you can select one of the instances and press Shift + Ctrl + L --> it will select all of them. Then, as soon as you start typing the new value, it will be done at once, changing all that instances.

I knew it worked in VS Code, I didn't realize that Stackblitz supported the feature as well. (I guess I should have known as I believe Stackblitz is VS Code on the inside.)

Signal is value + notification change. 
This will bring less boilerplate code with the internal reactive code of the component .instead of observable which requires subscription each time value is needed.

But you'll probably still see Observables in services to handle http requests and other async operations.

I see signals to be so similar to behavior subjects !! Does this mean Angular is eventually trying to get rid of zone.js?

Yes ... eventually... that's one of the goals.

How does it improves the changes detection strategy ?

Angular's current change detection uses zone.js. There are several issues with zone.js as outlined here: https://github.com/angular/angular/discussions/49684

Here's a snippet from the link:

"The Zone approach isn't scalable.
Zone is based on monkey-patching platform APIs like setTimeout, Promise.then, and addEventListener. This lets Angular know when something has happened in the browser, and we can then schedule change detection to synchronize the UI with any potential model changes.

This approach has not scaled well. zone.js must be loaded before the application starts in order to patch its target APIs. This patching operation is not free, both in terms of bytes downloaded and milliseconds of load time. zone.js also has no idea which APIs the application will use, and must patch them just in case. As browsers add more and more APIs, the cost of this patching grows, as does the cost of maintaining zone.js.

Another major issue is that some platform APIs, such as async / await, are not monkey-patchable at all, requiring awkward workarounds or forced down-leveling.

While we can work to optimize zone.js and reduce these costs, we will never be able to eliminate them completely.

Zones are the root cause of many common pain points in Angular.
In looking back at 7+ years of Angular history and feedback, we've identified zone.js as a common root cause behind many developer experience or performance challenges.

The infamous ExpressionChangedAfterItHasBeenChecked error is often the result of violating Angular's assumptions of how data will flow in your application. Angular assumes that your data will flow from top to bottom along the view hierarchy. This assumption is rooted in how zone.js separates model updates from UI reconciliation, resulting in the potential for "unsafe" model updates.

Another issue we've noted is that zone.js can easily overreact to activity in an application, resulting in many unnecessary change detections. Often this results from third-party advertising, marketing, or analytics scripts being initialized in a way that runs their many timers or other actions in the Angular zone. In the worst cases, we've seen applications which do over 1,000+ change detections at startup. It's always possible to write code with performance problems, but zone.js makes it easy to create such issues unintentionally.

Developers are opting in to more fine-grained reactivity today
Many developers today use state management patterns or libraries that architect their data in a way where t can tell Angular exactly what changed. This usually takes the form of making components OnPush and using Observables together with the async pipe to mark components for check when state t depend on changes. Angular is capable of operating in this mode, but still relies on zone.js for top-down change detection. Thus, developers get some, but not all of the benefits of fine-grained reactivity, and still have to deal with the drawbacks of zone.js."


what about unsubscrıbing? 
Does ıt keep lıstening always: 
when to use sıgnal or observable (RxJs)?  
why Signal came up , because of less syntax?

There is no "subscribe", so no need to "unsubscribe". The component signals will keep listening until the component is destroyed. If the signal is in a service, the service will keep listening until that service's injector is destroyed.

Signals are primarily for managing change detection for the UI. So here's the flow:
- User kicks off an operation (such as selecting a customer from a list).
- Action is processed in an event handler (like it is now), something like onCustomerSelected() that is called via event binding in the template.
- The action may kick off an async process in a service, such as retrieving data based on that Id. That will continue to be done with RxJS/Observables.
- The resulting data could be returned from the service as a signal.
- The signal is bound to the UI, so the data appears to the user.

The only real difference from what we do now is that instead of the service returning an Observable<Customer>, it could return a Signal<Customer>. That could be bound directly in the UI instead of needing an async pipe.

The first part of the video attempts to explain why ... to provide more reactive programming (computed() for example) and to provide improved change detection.

Would Signals replace NgRx, or it is a completely different feature?

Signals are completely different from NgRx. Though NgRx has been modified to take advantage of the new signals features.

See this: https://dev.to/this-is-angular/signals-what-this-means-for-ngrx-eho


what about the new life cycle hooks?

I didn't cover them yet because AFAIK, t aren't all implemented yet. T are still in RFC (Request for Comment) stage.

You can find out more about the proposed lifecycle changes here: https://github.com/angular/angular/discussions/49682 under the topic of "Component lifecycle and effects"

NOTE: I did cover `effect()` in the video which is also discussed in this section.

NOTE: Even though all of the lifecycle hooks are shown in the above referenced document as functions within the constructor, many of them can be defined declaratively as shown with the `effect()` in this video. 



Yes, you can edit a YouTube video that you have uploaded, as long as you are signed in to your YouTube account. Here are the steps to edit your video:

Sign in to your YouTube account and go to your channel's Video Manager.

Find the video that you want to edit and click on the Edit button.

You will be taken to the Video Editor, where you can trim, split, add or remove sections, add music, and make other changes to your video.

After you have made your edits, click on the Save button to save the changes.

Once you have saved the changes, the edited video will be processed and replaced on YouTube. Please note that the video URL and statistics associated with the video will remain the same.

It's important to note that if your video has already been monetized, re-uploading an edited version may affect your monetization status. Also, if the video has been live for a while and has accumulated views, editing it may affect its search rankings and visibility. So, it's a good idea to carefully consider the changes you want to make before editing a video that has already been published.

I see options to:
- Trim & Cut
- Blur
- Audio
- End screen
- Info cards

I don't see any option to actually add anything. So it looks like I could cut out the error, but not replace it with a correction. AFAIK, I can't even add a callout pointing to the typo.

Since this error really doesn't impact the training in the video on signals, it doesn't seem worth trying to fix it. I did add it to a NOTE in the description.

=

i dont't get why only the last of the 3 '.set(value)' is detected by the effect.

-

JavaScript/TypeScript is single threaded. Only one set of code can run at a time.

When the event handler code is running, it will continue running until the end. Since all of the event handler code ran before the effect code runs, the current value is the last value that was set.

When the event handler code execution is complete, other code (such as the effect) can run. The effect is notified that a signal has changed, but is not given that changed value. Rather, when the effect executes, it reads the current value from the signal itself. 

-

Ok but i really thought that using 'set', 'update' or 'mutate' would trigger the effect prior (or parallel) to the next line of code. It would be totally reactive in this way. What do you mean by  the 'event handler code' : a function called next to the trigger of an event, or a general javascript mechanism ?

-

Since JavaScript is single threaded, it will finish executing any code in a function before it runs anything on the "callback queue".

By "event handler code", I mean this: 
  onQuantitySelected(qty: number) {
    this.quantity.set(qty);

    // Does not "emit" values, rather updates the value in the "box"
    // The qtyEff effect will not be called until the next tick
    // It only displays the latest value.
    this.quantity.set(5);
    this.quantity.set(42);
  }

-

I found a cool JavaScript flow visualizer here: http://latentflip.com/loupe

Try it out. Try changing the "on" event handler to include code like this:
$.on('button', 'click', function onClick() {
    setTimeout(function timer() {
        console.log('You clicked the button!');    
    }, 500);
    
    for (let x = 0; x < 10; x++) {
        console.log(x);
    }
});

You'll see it run through and queue up the setTimeout until the loop at the bottom is finished. THEN it will run the callback within the setTimeout and display "You clicked the button!".

An effect() is run similarly.

-

Ok it displays "you clicked the button!" if we open the console. I searched for it on the web page. i have to keep in mind the "callback queue".

=

What: What motivates an RxJs expert to change to Signals?
Why: Why does an RxJs expert exchange a powerful technology like Rxjs with just a getter/setter function what Signals really are?
How: How can an RxJs expert be convinced to give away his swiss army knife for a hammer?


Not sure what I said that gave you that impression? I have no plans to give up RxJS and Observables. You'll have to pry them from my cold, dead hands. 😀

Signals are for sync operations. We are exchanging the async pipe with a bound signal. Anything async (like http requests and complex data manipulation) will still be RxJS.

I didn't include the RxJS/Observables in this video because the `fromObservable` and `fromSignal` needed to display the Observable values in the UI aren't yet in place. I did get a "fake" version of those methods and have an example of signals with RxJS here: https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-y9goji

I plan to turn the above linked example into a separate video as soon as the `fromObservable` and `fromSignal` features are available in the v16 preview.



What's happend woth RX and subscriber/observables then,Are Angular team going to get rid of them?

Signals are synchronous and primarily for keeping our UI updated with changes to data in our component.

RxJS/Observables are for asynchronous operations, such as retrieving data via http. That won't change and won't go away.

There will be methods such as fromObservable() that will take an Observable and convert it to a signal for display in the UI.

You can think of it more like that 
signals will replace the async pipe. 
Like the async pipe, the fromObservable() will automatically subscribe/unsubscribe to the Observable.





