4 Angular Signal vs BehaviorSubject
Deborah Kurata
Apr 20, 2023
Angular Signals
Signal vs RxJS BehaviorSubject. Fight! Just kidding. 😆

In reality, there are use cases for both. In this video, we take a look at how to replace a synchronous BehaviorSubject stream with a signal.

Starting in Angular v16, Angular developers can leverage the power of signals to create more reactive applications. Signals provide a new way for our code to inform our templates that data has changed, offering more granular control over how and when updates are propagated with change detection. If you aren't familiar with signals, consider watching my introductory signals video first. You can find the link below.

Links
Angular Signals: What, Why, and How?:    • Angular Signals: ...  

How Angular Signals and RxJS Work Together:    • How Angular Signa...  

Sample code:
https://github.com/DeborahK/Angular-Signals/tree/main/swVehicles-with-vehicle-signals

Content
00:00 Signal vs BehaviorSubject ... Fight!
00:37 Existing BehaviorSubject code
01:44 Replacing the BehaviorSubject
03:17 Updating the Input property
04:33 Creating a computed signal
05:27 Creating a signal for an array
05:40 Binding to signals
06:38 Running to validate our changes
06:57 Why replace a BehaviorSubject with a signal?

Transcript
Signal vs BehaviorSubject ... Fight!
hey on the one hand we have the tried
and true BehaviorSubject and on the
other hand we have the new signal
features let's get ready to rumble
just kidding in reality there are use
cases for both in this video we'll take
a look at how to replace a synchronous
BehaviorSubject stream with a signal if
you are new to angular V16 signals check
out my introductory signals video you
can find the link to that video in the
upper right corner now or in this
video's notes

Existing BehaviorSubject code
here is my Star Wars vehicle sales
application in a prior video we modified
the vehicle service to create signals
from observables and observables from
signals
in this video we'll work with the cart
feature and replace the BehaviorSubject
here with a signal before we start
modifying the card component code 
let's
take a quick look at how the cart
functionality works I'll run the
application
and 
here is our welcome page click on
the vehicle list and we see our list of
vehicles select a vehicle
and the vehicle detail appears click on
add to cart to add the selected vehicle
to the cart click on the cart menu and
we see the item in our cart along with
the cart totals notice that when we
select a new quantity the extended price
shown here has cost reacts to the change
and recalculates let's focus on the code
for this card item
here is the cart item component I'll
Replacing the BehaviorSubject
open the cart.ts file so we can see the
interface definition for our cart and
card item as expected 
the cart is an
array of cart items 
a cart item includes
a vehicle and the quantity

looking at the cart list component we
see that it's still using an observable
we'll change the cart service from an
observable to a signal in a later video
when we talk about managing state with
signals 

for now notice the template we
Loop through each card item create a
cart item component and pass send the
card item as an input property
going back to the card item component
here is that input property when the
property is set it emits the Past end
card item to our BehaviorSubject
so our BehaviorSubject emits a card
item anytime when is provided to this
component 

let's instead create a signal
card item equal signal and 
we'll add
signal to the import 
next we need to
define a default a signal always has a
value starting with a provided default
we'll use the same default use for the
BehaviorSubject 
I'll copy it and paste
it
so now the two code lines for our
BehaviorSubject become one line for our
signal 
let's delete these two lines and
update our comment
next we modify our input property Setter

Updating the Input property
to set the signal instead of emitting to
the observable we'll call set to set the
card item to the provided item we'll
delete the code that references the
observable note however that 
there's a
bug in angular version 16 rc1 that won't
allow setting a signal in an input
property this was fixed in rc2 
note also
that angular V16 will have signal-based
inputs as of this recording they weren't
yet implemented 
I'll cover how to use
signal-based inputs in a later video
scrolling up let's delete our unused
Imports 
we are no longer using rxjs in
this component
scrolling back down in our two methods
on quantity selected and on remove which
removes an item from the cart 
let's
change the first argument instead of
referencing our input property let's
pass the value of our signal
don't forget the parentheses to read the
signal value
but we still have an error reacting to
our observable and calculating our
extended price any idea how to fix that


Creating a computed signal
if you set a computed signal you are
correct 
we'll create a new signal called
exPrice without the $
 then called
a computed creation function and we'll
add the import
for the computed expression 
we'll read
the card item signal again 
don't forget
the parentheses 
we'll reference the
quantity and multiply it by the cost of
that vehicle 
we'll again read the cart
item signal reference the vehicle and
reference the cost and credits property

there's a little problem here in that
the cost and credits is stored as a
string so we'll use the 

Number function
to coerce the value into a number

now we can delete our extended price
observable and our errors are gone

we now have two signals 
our cart item
and the computed extended price 

what
about our array here 



Creating a signal for an array

since we bind to
this array in the template let's make
that a signal as well

we'll call the signal creation function
and pass in this array as its initial
value



Binding to signals

now that our component state is defined
with signals 
let's update the template
to bind to those new signals
here in the card item component HTML
file instead of binding to the
observable using the async pipe will
bind to our signal
and anywhere we reference the item we'll
read our signal I'll select item .

press 
Ctrl shift L
 to select all
occurrences and change it to cart item
parent
and 

press escape to finish

scrolling down let's find where we're
referencing our quantity array
we're binding adhere to our select
option
the 
ngFor now needs to read the signal
instead

scrolling down further lastly we'll
modify the extended price to bind to our
signal
that's it 

Running to validate our changes
let's bring up the app and see
if everything still works 
click vehicle
list to see the list of vehicles

select a vehicle and click add to cart

click on cart and we see our cart change
the quantity and our extended price
recalculates nice




going back to the code we've
successfully changed our synchronous
BehaviorSubject to a signal and the
code that reacts to card changes is now
a computed signal



Why replace a BehaviorSubject with a signal?

simplified binding 
we can bind
directly to our signal 
instead of using
an async pipe 

no need to subscribe
signals don't require a subscription

computed properties instead of reacting
to emitted items from unobservable we
instead create a computed property which
is arguably a bit easier to read and
understand


improved change detection so this
feature isn't implemented yet we can
prepare by changing to signals now
ensuring we're ready for a potential
zoneless future

looks like signals won this battle
if you have any questions or would like
to see a video on another signal topic
please post those questions or
suggestions in the comments thanks for
watching and don't forget to like And
subscribe
Angular Signals
Deborah Kurata
4 / 5

Comments

If possible a future video on testing the Signals would be great addition to the series.

Last I heard from the Angular team, they haven't yet worked on the testing story. I'll add it to the list and put something together when there is something ready.

=

how you would do most common operators with Signals when you have e.g. switchmap, map, combineLatest. Would you still use RxJS and forward the stream to the signal?

Yes, you would still use RxJS for the pipeline. Then create a signal from the resulting Observable.

I'll add to my list to do an example. 

=

I got the main reasons why to switch I think not needing 'subscribe' and async is really a good point. What I wonder is if there is hope they implement it so that we get those benefits of change detection when using RxJS as well?

You can use OnPush change detection with RxJS now using the async pipe to get some of the benefits of improved change detection.

I'm not certain what the plan for the async pipe will be in future versions (v17+). Whether they plan to include it in their new zoneless change detection or if they will phase it out.

Is there a case when you'd really need an async pipe and can't create a signal from an Observable instead?

=

Can you include in your next videos this scenario: fetching data from API when we click on some button for example and managing this data in a service with signals ?

=

if there's a way to handle isLoading state when a signal is getting information from Observables.

I'll work up an example of isLoading.

=

if I start using signals with my app, should be safe to change all my components to OnPush right ?

And yes! Any component that does all it's binding with signals (or signals and RxJS) can be changed to OnPush.


